fL. minorem D. de ris. nup paragri. ide nu, aux implications of $t u$ signs and the public use of testimony. 2. Aristotle in the book of the nature of animals. c. v. * Skacr. concerning the blood of Scipio c, vi. x L. arraga. 20. paragraph D. about adoption 1, Sida para. 2. Of other laws. 7 L. i. paragraph childhood. D. of the postulant.

x. Skacrobe to the first book of the Sarur males. c. vi.

But even at this age, it is sometimes observed that the generative virtue begins to move in man: \& the purification of flowers in women: \& thus, man \& woman can produce strong seed, to conceive \& engender $u$. although towards the seventeenth year, \& even better towards the eighteenth, the natural virtue is much more robust \& powerful: which is why our ancestors called the eighteenth year full \& perfect puberty $\times$, \& moreover taught that in the seventeenth year, man is still almost in his childhood $J$. This is what the ancient Romans demonstrated with the beautiful children of Senators, or from other illustrious \& honorable houses, to whom until the seventeenth year, they made wear the same style of clothing that they had worn in their early childhood, namely a long robe, down to the heels, bordered all around with purple, which they called p r a x TEXTA with a small gold ring, in the shape of a heart, hung around their neck, which they called B V E L A: so that by looking at it, they would have occasion to think that they would not be considered men, except insofar as their heart would be honest, good, \& virtuous z. And if someone is still so curious, wanting to seek \& understand the reason why women are more apt for marriage than men, I will answer with Aristotle that as females, in their mother’s womb, due to their coldness \& weakness, remain longer to build \& perfect themselves, sometimes waiting until the tenth month: whereas the more virtuous \& robust males, barely exceed the ninth. Also, when women are born, for the same reason of their weakness \& debility, grow \& age faster than males a. Therefore, one must attribute this to nature which makes women more apt to engender, as being fresher, \& having grown \& aged faster b: in the example of all fruit, which the smaller \& finer it is, the more promptly it ripens, \& with greater speed.

# T B X T B.

With which he would have stayed nine or ten years, \& from his works procreated a son called